---
layout: post
title: "Stories from the field"
---
I’ve been working in workforce development for 2+ years.  Here are the stories of some of the people that I’ve worked with.

* A young man was looking to make some money during the holiday season.  He was commuting from his home in the Bronx to a UPS packing facility in Secaucus, NJ.  His shift started in the middle of the night, after the last trains from NY to NJ and before the morning rush.  He used to take the last train to NJ, a little after 1 AM, and sit/sleep on a bench in the train station until his shift.  He commuted with his bike so that he could then bike from the Secaucus station to the UPS packing facility, all during the bitter cold of December.
* I forget exactly which job she was applying for, but the job required a valid driver’s license.  She had an expired license, and she needed to renew her license.  I sat with her as we went through multiple security steps to recover her password.  Once we had logged in, her bank account had a balance of $12.  
* A man who dreamed of opening up his own restaurant one day.  In the meantime, he was working as a line cook at a restaurant in Hell’s Kitchen.  He lived in the Bronx, and he had to leave his home 2 hours before his shift started, simply because the NYC subway system is so unpredictable.
* A young man that had to make sure that his job training wouldn’t interfere with his trips to the methadone clinic.
* A woman who was working in an office in the suburbs of Connecticut.  When walking to her car at the end of the workday, she was robbed and physically abused.  This trauma caused her to go in and out of homelessness for years.
* Countless people that couldn’t write above an elementary school level, even though they had graduated high school or had their GED.

Our low-income neighborhoods deserve better.  Better education, better job prospects, better transportation, better healthcare, better childcare.  I’ve been trying to figure out how best to support anti-racism and inequality-reducing initiatives these days.  I’ll be supporting the cause to reduce funding to the police, in addition to my work in workforce development.  I’m not in favor of entirely gutting the police force, but I think that we should think hard about how much we could benefit low-income neighborhoods if we spent more on social services.  Police are first responders to calls of domestic violence, homelessness, and mental health; social service professionals would likely be more effective.  [Higher wages result in less crime](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2016/05/raise-the-minimum-wage-reduce-crime/480912/).  Amidst COVID-19 shortfalls, many [supportive programs are being cut without any cuts to policing](https://gothamist.com/news/amid-protests-growing-calls-invest-kids-not-nypd).

In the NYC area, I have been [reaching out to my local City Counsel member](https://twitter.com/harrisosserman/status/1269490737445588992?s=20"), learning about how the budgeting process works, preparing to vote, and supporting local organizations.  In all honesty, this has been an eye opening experience, learning how local budgets are made, actually taking the time to know the name and values of my local City Counsel member, and educating myself on the elections coming up (besides Trump vs Biden).  If you believe in supporting the cause, check out this Google Sheet: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/18pWRSu58DpENABkYUJlZw1ltCPZft7KJc6lFaOZK8-s/htmlview#gid=804939284](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/18pWRSu58DpENABkYUJlZw1ltCPZft7KJc6lFaOZK8-s/htmlview#gid=804939284).


