---
layout: post
title: "I'm not doing enough"
---
I was reading [Clair Minson's article](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/covid-19-revealed-our-field-needs-reckoning-clair/) on how workforce development needs a reckoning.  I've felt many of the same feelings.

>  "When I started focusing on the intersection of race, racism and workforce development, I was forced to face the reality that I too had played a role in keeping Black and other non-Black workers of color economically oppressed. By designing training programs to “meet the needs” of employers rather than challenging the institutional policies and practices of employers, I was upholding the status quo. Every time I framed the jobseekers I worked with as “low-skilled” I was reinforcing the negative cultural messages that Black people and other non-Black people of color aren’t skilled and therefore need to be “taught how to be job ready”. And every time I chose to connect jobseekers to low-wage, dead end jobs, I sealed the fate of their entire family because of the harsh reality that career advancement opportunities for Black and non-Black workers of color in predominantly white industries are rarely accessible to them."

I’ve been working in workforce development for 2+ years.  Here are the stories of some of the people that I’ve worked with.

* A young man was looking to make some money during the holiday season.  He was commuting from his home in the Bronx to a UPS packing facility in Secaucus, NJ.  His shift started in the middle of the night, after the last trains from NY to NJ and before the morning rush.  He used to take the last train to NJ, a little after 1 AM, and sit/sleep on a bench in the train station until his shift.  He commuted with his bike so that he could then bike from the Secaucus station to the UPS packing facility, all during the bitter cold of December.
* I was sitting with a woman, helping her apply for a job.  I forget exactly which job she was applying for, but the job required a valid driver’s license.  She had an expired license, and she needed to renew her license.  I sat with her as we went through multiple security steps to recover her password.  Once we had logged in, her bank account had a balance of $12.  
* A man dreamed of opening up his own restaurant one day.  In the meantime, he was working as a line cook at a restaurant in Hell’s Kitchen.  He lived in the Bronx, and he had to leave his home 2 hours before his shift started, simply because the NYC subway system is so unpredictable.
* A young man that had to make sure that his job training wouldn’t interfere with his trips to the methadone clinic.
* A woman who was working in an office in the suburbs of Connecticut.  When walking to her car at the end of the workday, she was robbed and physically abused.  This trauma caused her to go in and out of homelessness for years.  She told me this experience when she wasn't sure how to describe this gap in her resume to employers.
* Countless people that couldn’t write above an elementary school level, even though they had graduated high school or had their GED.

Workforce development is proven to help people get better jobs, higher pay, and more valued skills.  But, as a community, we too often feel satisfied when someone goes from chronically unemployed to minimum wage, or minimum wage to $20/hr.  Of course, these are steps in the right direction, but the predominantly black and brown people that we serve deserve better.  

I’ve been trying to figure out how best to support inequality-reducing initiatives these days.  I’ll be supporting the cause to reduce funding to the police (in addition to continuing my support of workforce development).  I’m not in favor of entirely gutting the police force, but I think that we should think hard about the trade-offs of every incremental dollar that we spend on policing instead of healthcare, education, mental health, transportation, etc.  Police are first responders to calls of domestic violence, homelessness, and mental health; social service professionals would likely be more effective.  [Higher wages result in less crime](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2016/05/raise-the-minimum-wage-reduce-crime/480912/).  Amidst COVID-19 budget shortfalls, many [supportive programs are being cut without any cuts to policing](https://gothamist.com/news/amid-protests-growing-calls-invest-kids-not-nypd).

In the NYC area, I have been [reaching out to my local City Counsel member](https://twitter.com/harrisosserman/status/1269490737445588992?s=20"), learning about how the budgeting process works, preparing to vote, and supporting local organizations.  In all honesty, the process of learning how local budgets are made, actually taking the time to know the name and values of my local City Counsel member, and educating myself on the elections coming up (besides Trump vs Biden) has been eye opening.  If you believe in supporting the cause, check out this Google Sheet: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/18pWRSu58DpENABkYUJlZw1ltCPZft7KJc6lFaOZK8-s/htmlview#gid=804939284](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/18pWRSu58DpENABkYUJlZw1ltCPZft7KJc6lFaOZK8-s/htmlview#gid=804939284).

As Bryan Stevenson said in [Just Mercy](https://www.justmercyfilm.com/), ["the opposite of poverty is not wealth; the opposite of poverty is justice."](https://www.folomedia.org/the-opposite-of-poverty-is-not-wealth-its-justice/#:~:text=The%20opposite%20of%20poverty%20is%20not%20wealth.,the%20future%20of%20San%20Antonio.&text=Here's%20a%20sentence%20that's%20been,advocate%20for%20criminal%20justice%20reform.)  I hope you'll join me in trying to do more.